Add documentation for the FocalMeter plugin in mobile trackers (#531)
snowplow/documentation: docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/mobile-trackers/plugins/focal-meter/index.md

---
title: "Sending user identifier to Kantar FocalMeter"
date: "2023-01-04"
sidebar_position: 20
---

# Sending user identifier to Kantar FocalMeter

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

> The tracker has the ability to send the user identifier (`userId` present in the session context) to a [Kantar FocalMeter](https://www.virtualmeter.co.uk/focalmeter) endpoint.

Reviewer: Can we add like 1-2 sentences at the beginning about what a focalmeter is? In case people land on the page and are like, what is this, do I need to care about this

Author: Good point! Have added a bit more intro what focalmeter is.

For example:

<Tabs groupId="platform">
  <TabItem value="ios" label="iOS" default>

```swift
let focalMeterConfig = FocalMeterConfiguration(kantarEndpoint: "https://thekantarendpoint.com")
let tracker = Snowplow.createTracker(namespace: namespace, network: networkConfig, configurations: [focalMeterConfig])
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="android" label="Android (Kotlin)">

```kotlin
val focalMeterConfig = FocalMeterConfiguration("https://thekantarendpoint.com")
val tracker = Snowplow.createTracker(applicationContext, namespace, networkConfiguration, focalMeterConfig)
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="android-java" label="Android (Java)">

```java
FocalMeterConfiguration focalMeterConfig = new FocalMeterConfiguration("https://thekantarendpoint.com");
Snowplow.createTracker(applicationContext, namespace, networkConfiguration, focalMeterConfig);
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once configured, the tracker will make a request to the endpoint whenever the user identifier changes or each time the app starts.

:::note
Session context needs to be enabled (default) in order for the integration to work.
:::

:::note

> The feature is currently available in version 5.5.0-beta.2 of the iOS and Android trackers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The feature is available from version 5.6.0 of the iOS and Android trackers.
```
